So we have seen KMS for encryption,
but now let's look at CloudHSM.
So with KMS, AWS will manage the software for the encryption
and will have control over the encryption keys.
But with CloudHSM,
AWS will provision some encryption hardware.
It's called an HSM device, so a dedicated hardware,
which is a hardware security module.
And then we are going
to manage our own encryption keys entirely, not AWS.
So we have full control over the encryption keys.
The HSM device is going to be set up within the cloud
of AWS, but it is tamper resistant
with FIPS 140-2 Level 3 compliance, which means
that if anyone tries to access your HSM device manually,
then they're going to be stopped and blocked.
The CloudHSM device supports both symmetric
and asymmetric encryption keys.
So that means that you can have, for example, SSL
and TLS keys on top of it.
There is no free tier and to use the CloudHSM device,
you need to use the client software,
which is quite complicated and out of scope right now.
There is an integration
between Redshift and CloudHSM
if you wanted to leverage CloudHSM
for your database encryption and key managements.
CloudHSM is a really, really good candidate
if you want to implement SSE-C type
of encryption on top of S3, for example,
because you are managing your own encryption keys
and you are storing them into this CloudHSM.
So with the CloudHSM, AWS will manage your hardware,
whereas the service itself can be used on your own.
The CloudHSM client is something you have to use
to establish a connection into the CloudHSM service.
And then you are going to manage the keys overall.
So the IAM permissions are going to be used
to do a create, read, update, a delete of an HSM cluster
at a high level,
but then you're going to use your CloudHSM software
to manage the keys and manage the users
and their permissions to access the keys,
which is different from KMS
because in KMS, well, everything is managed using IAM.
Now, the CloudHSM clusters can have high availability
and they're spread across multiple AZ.
So they're HA, and this is super important to understand.
So you can have two AZs.
One is going to be replicated from another
and your HSM client can connect to either.
So how do we transparently leverage CloudHSM
within the AWS services encryption?
Well, there is an integration between CloudHSM and KMS.
How does that work?
Well, in KMS, we're going to define a KMS custom key store,
and that will be CloudHSM.
And that means we can get CloudHSM encryption for EBS,
S3, RDS and so on.
So how does that work?
Well, we create the CloudHSM cluster,
and we define a KMS custom key store that is going
to be connected to our CloudHSM cluster.
From there, if we create an RDS database instance
that has an encrypted EBS volume with KMS encryption,
well, internally this KMS encryption is going
to be leveraging encryption keys
within your CloudHSM cluster.
The benefit of doing this is number one,
we are actually using our CloudHSM cluster.
And number two, any API calls made through KMS
that reaches our cloud HSM cluster is going
to be logged in CloudTrail.
So if we compare CloudHSM and KMS,
the tendency of KMS is multi-tenant,
whereas for CloudHSM, it's single tenants.
They both have the same standard.
The master keys are three kinds on KMS, they're AWS owned,
AWS managed, and customer managed CMK.
Whereas for CloudHSM, it's only customer-managed CMK
because AWS cannot access your HSM device.
In terms of key type, it is very similar, symmetric,
asymmetric and digital signing for KMS
and symmetric, asymmetric and digital sending
and hashing for CloudHSM.
In terms of key accessibility, well,
KMS is accessible in multiple regions,
but because CloudHSM is deployed in a VPC,
you can share it across VPCs using VPC for sharing.
And so that means that it's going to be accessible
across multiple regions if you wanted to.
For cryptographic acceleration, well,
you can set up none on KMS, but with CloudHSM,
you have SSL and TLS acceleration you can use
at your load balancer level, or you can use Oracle
and TDE acceleration as well for your database.
That is Oracle based.
For access and authentication, you have IAM for KMS,
whereas CloudHSM has its own security mechanism
to manage users and their permissions and their keys.
And then finally, for high availability,
while KMS is a managed service and is always available
and CloudHSM will have multiple HSM devices
over different availability zones.
Other capability is CloudTrail and CloudWatch for KMS,
whereas we have MFS support as well for CloudHSM.
Finally, KMS is part of the free tier in AWS,
whereas CloudHSM is not.
So that's it for CloudHSM, I hope you liked it,
and I will see you in the next lecture.